PARAMETER FILES

Pulsar parameters used to calculate ephemrides are read from either
<psrname>.par files for individual pulsars or, for 'old-format' only, from a
single "tztot.dat" file.


<psrname>.par files

If free-format headers are used (no '-o' flag in the command line), pulsar
parameters for prediction mode are read from files '<psrname>.par' in the
'pardir' directory (pointed to in $TEMPO/tempo.cfg).  The parameters are in
the format described in the FREE-FORMAT HEADERS section.  Three additional
parameters describe the arrival time used as the absolute reference for the
ephemeris:

TZRMJD   Reference TOA (MJD)                                      
TZRFREQ  Frequency of reference TOA (MHz)
TZRSITE  One-letter observatory code of reference TOA

These and other parameters from a given solution are written out by TEMPO in
the file '<psrname>.par' in the current working directory. If such a file is
to be used for prediction purposes, it should be moved to the 'pardir'
directory.


TZTOT.DAT file

If fixed-format headers are used (indicated by command-line flag '-o'),
pulsar parameters for prediction mode are read from a single 'tztot' file
(pointed to in $TEMPO/tempo.cfg).  For each pulsar, this file contains
parameters as described for lines two and higher in FIXED-FORMAT HEADERS,
above, with an additional flag parameter in the first column of the second
line of the entry.  Allowed flag values are:

   Flag  Coordinates    Binary model
   ----  -----------    ------------
    B       B1950            BT
    C       J2000            BT
    D       J2000            BT1P
    E       J2000            BT2P
    F       B1950            DD
    G       J2000            DD
    P       B1950            NONE
    Q       J2000            NONE

The header is followed by a single TOA line used as the absolute phase
reference.  Parameters for different pulsars are listed sequentially
in the tztot file.  There is a single line between parameters sets
(and before the first parameter set), which is ignored.  Typically
this line is filled with dashes in the tztot file.

